content/ultimate-list-of-web3-blockchain-resources/index.md, before:

---
title: "Ultimate List of Web3/Blockchain Resources"
showAuthor: false
showDate: false
showReadingTime: false
---

![bookshelf](cover.jpg)

*Updated: 16 January 2022*

This is a personally curated list of articles and podcast episodes criticizing Blockchain/Web3 besides my [schlockchain](/schlockchain) category.

## Articles

- [Web3 is Bullshit](https://www.stephendiehl.com/blog/web3-bullshit.html): If you only read one article, make it this one. [Stephen Diel](https://twitter.com/smdiehl) does an excellent job of breaking down all the different angles on how Web3 is at best misleading.
- [It's not still the early days](https://blog.mollywhite.net/its-not-still-the-early-days/): A great take on what I named [the argument on potential](https://www.leif.io/blog/2021/12/29/blockchains-are-too-old-to-be-the-beginning-of-anything/) by [Molly White](https://twitter.com/molly0xFFF). Much more concise and with better examples than I ever could write it.
- [My first impressions of web3](https://moxie.org/2022/01/07/web3-first-impressions.html): [Moxie Marlinspike](https://twitter.com/moxie), the founder of Signal, gives an excellent run down on what actually happens when you try to use web3. This article focuses more an the usefulness on NFTs with a focus on NFTs.
- [Cloud Crypto Land](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3476678): Legal study by London School of Economics professor [Edmund Schuster](https://twitter.com/edmund_schuster) on the impossibility of a meaningful blockchain-based economic system.
- [187 Things the Blockchain Is Supposed to Fix](https://www.wired.com/story/187-things-the-blockchain-is-supposed-to-fix/): WIRED article from 2018 listing various use cases for Blockchain. Especially insightful to go through the links for now non-existing companies.
- [Web3 is going just great](https://web3isgoinggreat.com): Amazing overview collected by [Molly White](https://twitter.com/molly0xFFF) on all the mishaps in the Web3 space.
- [Why Web3’s Shared Data Across Applications Doesn’t Matter](https://medium.com/bloated-mvp/why-web3s-shared-data-across-applications-doesn-t-matter-e0281d3f70d2): Awesome run down by [Liron Shapiro](https://twitter.com/liron) about one specific argument of Web3 and how it would fail in reality.

## Podcast Episodes

- [Tech Won't Save Us: Web3 is a Scam, Not a Revolution](https://podcasts.apple.com/fi/podcast/tech-wont-save-us/id1507621076?i=1000544403873): A great podcast episode with [Paris Marx](https://twitter.com/parismarx) and [Stephen Diel](https://twitter.com/smdiehl). 1 hour of everything that's wrong with the blockchain and Web3.
- [TRASHFUTURE: The Road to Apedom](https://trashfuturepodcast.podbean.com/e/the-road-to-apedom-feat-this-machine-kills/): 80 minutes of lighthearted conversation trashing all kinds of aspects of Web3.

## General Resources

- [Attack of the 50ft Blockchain](https://davidgerard.co.uk/blockchain/book/): An absolute must read for everyone wanting to step into the Blockchain universe. This book by [David Gerard](https://twitter.com/davidgerard) was released in 2017 so it doesn't touch on Web3 or NFTs but the arguments it makes still hold true.

*Attribution: [Books](https://pixabay.com/photos/books-bookstore-book-reading-1204029/) by [Lubos Houska](https://pixabay.com/users/luboshouska-198496/)*

Commit message:

add article and other list to web3 resources (#44)

content/ultimate-list-of-web3-blockchain-resources/index.md, after:

---
title: "Ultimate List of Web3/Blockchain Resources"
showAuthor: false
showDate: false
showReadingTime: false
---

![bookshelf](cover.jpg)

*Updated: 19 January 2022*

This is a personally curated list of articles and podcast episodes criticizing Blockchain/Web3 besides my [schlockchain](/schlockchain) category.

## Articles

- [Web3 is Bullshit](https://www.stephendiehl.com/blog/web3-bullshit.html): If you only read one article, make it this one. [Stephen Diel](https://twitter.com/smdiehl) does an excellent job of breaking down all the different angles on how Web3 is at best misleading.
- [It's not still the early days](https://blog.mollywhite.net/its-not-still-the-early-days/): A great take on what I named [the argument on potential](https://www.leif.io/blog/2021/12/29/blockchains-are-too-old-to-be-the-beginning-of-anything/) by [Molly White](https://twitter.com/molly0xFFF). Much more concise and with better examples than I ever could write it.
- [My first impressions of web3](https://moxie.org/2022/01/07/web3-first-impressions.html): [Moxie Marlinspike](https://twitter.com/moxie), the founder of Signal, gives an excellent run down on what actually happens when you try to use web3. This article focuses more an the usefulness on NFTs with a focus on NFTs.
- [Cloud Crypto Land](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3476678): Legal study by London School of Economics professor [Edmund Schuster](https://twitter.com/edmund_schuster) on the impossibility of a meaningful blockchain-based economic system.
- [187 Things the Blockchain Is Supposed to Fix](https://www.wired.com/story/187-things-the-blockchain-is-supposed-to-fix/): WIRED article from 2018 listing various use cases for Blockchain. Especially insightful to go through the links for now non-existing companies.
- [Web3 is going just great](https://web3isgoinggreat.com): Amazing overview collected by [Molly White](https://twitter.com/molly0xFFF) on all the mishaps in the Web3 space.
- [Why Web3’s Shared Data Across Applications Doesn’t Matter](https://medium.com/bloated-mvp/why-web3s-shared-data-across-applications-doesn-t-matter-e0281d3f70d2): Awesome run down by [Liron Shapiro](https://twitter.com/liron) about one specific argument of Web3 and how it would fail in reality.
- [How To Kill Bitcoin](https://joekelly100.medium.com/how-to-kill-bitcoin-part-1-is-bitcoin-unstoppable-code-7a1b366f65ee): 3 part article explaining on how a government could effectively stop the Bitcoin network on a technical level.

## Podcast Episodes

- [Tech Won't Save Us: Web3 is a Scam, Not a Revolution](https://podcasts.apple.com/fi/podcast/tech-wont-save-us/id1507621076?i=1000544403873): A great podcast episode with [Paris Marx](https://twitter.com/parismarx) and [Stephen Diel](https://twitter.com/smdiehl). 1 hour of everything that's wrong with the blockchain and Web3.
- [TRASHFUTURE: The Road to Apedom](https://trashfuturepodcast.podbean.com/e/the-road-to-apedom-feat-this-machine-kills/): 80 minutes of lighthearted conversation trashing all kinds of aspects of Web3.

## General Resources

- [Attack of the 50ft Blockchain](https://davidgerard.co.uk/blockchain/book/): An absolute must read for everyone wanting to step into the Blockchain universe. This book by [David Gerard](https://twitter.com/davidgerard) was released in 2017 so it doesn't touch on Web3 or NFTs but the arguments it makes still hold true.

## More Lists

- [awesome-crypto-critique](https://github.com/rufuspollock/awesome-crypto-critique): Giant list of articles criticizing Crypto, Blockchain and Web3

*Attribution: [Books](https://pixabay.com/photos/books-bookstore-book-reading-1204029/) by [Lubos Houska](https://pixabay.com/users/luboshouska-198496/)*
